There are four mailing lists for discussion of the Debian Linux system.
They are:

    debian-announce@lists.debian.org  General announcements. Moderated.

    debian-changes@lists.debian.org   Announcements of new versions of Debian
                                      packages.  Unmoderated.

    debian-user@lists.debian.org      User discussion, and user questions to
                                      developers.  Unmoderated.

    debian-devel@lists.debian.org     Developer-to-developer discussion.
                                      Restricted membership.

If you have a World Wide Web browser such as Mosaic or Netscape, you can
subscribe to debian-announce, debian-changes, and debian-user by using
the WWW form `http://www.rahul.net/perens/Debian/MailingLists.html'. You
can also unsubscribe using that form.

TO SUBSCRIBE by E-MAIL:

    debian-announce    Send mail to debian-announce-REQUEST@lists.debian.org
                       with the word "subscribe" in the message body.

    debian-changes     Send mail to debian-changes-REQUEST@lists.debian.org
                       with the word "subscribe" in the message body.

    debian-user        Send mail to debian-user-REQUEST@lists.debian.org
                       with the word "subscribe" in the message body.

    debian-devel       Send mail to Bruce@Pixar.com with a one-line
                       explanation of what you want to develop or test.

TO UNSUBSCRIBE

Send mail to the corresponding -REQUEST address with the word "unsubscribe"
in the message body.

MAILING LIST ADVERTISING POLICY

This policy is intended to fight mailing-list "spamming".

The Debian Linux mailing lists accept commercial advertising for
payment. We offer a fee waiver if you can show us the cancelled check
for a $1000 (U.S.) or more donation to the Free Software Foundation
earmarked for "Debian". One donation per advertisement, please. If you
don't wish to donate, simply post your advertisement to the list, and
the operator of the mailing lists will bill $1999 (U.S). The list
operator will donate this amount, minus the expense of collecting it,
to FSF. Please note that the lists are distributed automaticaly - messages
are generally not read or checked in any way before they are distributed.

By the act of posting your advertisement you agree to accept
responsibility for the fee, you agree to indemnify the mailing-list
operator against any legal claims from you or others in connection with
your advertisement, and you agree to pay any legal and business
expenses incurred in collecting late payment. Our liability to you is
limited to a good-faith effort to deliver your message.

Reduced rates and/or waiver of fee are available for Debian-related
advertisements. You must consult the mailing-list operator in advance
of posting for any reduction or fee waiver.
